Bird behavior and populace patterns have become a significant issue nowadays. Birds help
us to recognize different life forms on the earth effectively as they react rapidly to ecological
changes. Be that as it may, assembling and gathering data about bird species requires
immense human exertion just as it turns into an extremely costly technique. In such a case, a
solid framework that will give enormous scale preparation of data about birds and will fill in
as a significant apparatus for scientists, legislative offices, and so forth is required. In this
way, bird species distinguishing proof assumes a significant job in recognizing that a specific
picture of birds has a place with which categories.

Bird species identification means predicting the bird species belongs to which category by using an image.
The recognition of bird species can be possible through a picture, audio or video. An audio
processing method makes it conceivable to recognize by catching the sound sign of different
birds. Be that as it may, because of the blended sounds in condition, for example, creepy
crawlies, objects from the real world, and so forth handling of such data turns out to be
progressively convoluted. Normally, people discover images more effectively than sounds or
recordings. So, an approach to classify birds using an image over audio or video is preferred.
Bird species identification is a challenging task to humans as well as to computational
procedures that carry out such a task in an automated fashion.

As image-based classification systems are improving the task of classifying, objects are
moving into datasets with far more categories such as Caltech-UCSD. Recent work has seen
much success in this area. Caltech UCSD Birds 200(CUB-200-2011) is a wellknown dataset
for bird images with photos of 200 categories. The dataset contains birds that are mostly
found in Northern America. Caltech-UCSD Birds 200 consists of 11,788 images and
annotations like 15 Part Locations, 312 Binary Attributes, 1 Bounding Box.
In this project, rather than recognizing an oversized number of disparate categories, the
matter of recognizing an oversized number of classes within one category is investigated –
that of birds. Classifying birds pose an additional challenge over categories, as a result of the
massive similarity between classes. 

Additionally, birds are non-rigid objects which will deform in many ways and consequently there's also an oversized variation within classes.
Previous work on bird classification has taken care of a little number of classes, or through
voice.
